# Environmental Variables
Following the instructions in [README](https://github.com/informatics-lab/aml-jupyterhub/tree/master/README.md), copy the file `env.template` to `.env` and fill in the variables:

## Current mandatory variables
* SUBSCRIPTION_ID - in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) you can click on "Subscriptions", and find the ID (the long hex string) for the one you want.
* LOCATION - the Azure region where the resources are located, e.g. "uksouth", or "westeurope".
* SPAWN_TO_WORK_SPACE - the name of an AML Workspace (will be created if it doesn't already exist).
* SPAWN_TO_COMPUTE_INSTANCE_SUFFIX - suffix will be appended to the name of the Compute Instance that is created.
* RESOURCE_GROUP - the name of the Azure Resource Group containing the resources used here. If it does not exist it will be created automatically (in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) - search for "Resource Groups").
* HOST - The host name where this app is hosted (e.g. 'localhost:8888', 'd04091ec4cc6.ngrok.io', 'hub.mydomain.co.uk'). If authenticating with Azure Active Directory this should be an URL accessible to azure (i.e. not just `localhost` - check the [Test setup](https://github.com/informatics-lab/aml-jupyterhub/tree/master/README.md#test-setup))

## Previous variables

### Storage Account Variables
The following variables are needed to mount a user's home workspace. Currently this option is not working.
* STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME - The name of the Azure Storage Account to mount.
* STORAGE_ACCOUNT_CONN_STR - this is relevant for mounting a users "home workspace".  If this functionality is desired, there needs to be an Azure Storage Account associated with it, and in the blade for the storage account in the Azure portal, you can click on "Access keys" on the left sidebar, and take the "Connection string" from either "key1" or "key2".
* SAS_TOKEN - this is a temporary access token for the above storage account - will soon be generated by the spawner code rather than input here.
* SSH_PUB_KEY, SSH_PRIVATE_KEY - again, these are used when mounting a user's home workspace.  You can generate a new key pair using the command `ssh-keygen` then following the on-screen prompts.  The public key will be the one with `.pub` at the end of the filename - enter the contents of this file into the SSH_PUB_KEY variable.  The private key corresponding to this will be the file without `.pub` - base64-encode the contents of this and put the result as the SSH_PRIVATE_KEY variable.

### Authentication variables
The following variables are used to authenticate the app with Azure Active Directory. Previously, these had to be set up manually checking their values on Azure portal. The current implementation creates automatically a Service Principal  at each instantiation of a JupyterHub server and retrieves these values from the SP details.
* AAD_TENANT_ID - this can be found in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) if you search for and click on "Azure Active Directory", there will be a panel named "Tenant information", with "Tenant ID" in.
* AAD_CLIENT_ID, AAD_CLIENT_SECRET - these are used when using the Azure Active Directory OAuth authentication to log the user into Jupyterhub.  For this to work, the jupyterhub spawner needs to be registered as an Application in the Azure Portal (go to "Azure Active Directory", then "App Registration", and fill in the fields to register the app.  The "Client id" will then be on the overview panel for the app.  To generate a "Client secret", click on "Certificates and secrets" on the left sidebar, and click "+ New client secret".
* TENANT_ID - duplicate of the AAD_TENANT_ID above.

### Other kind
* DEFAULT_USERNAME - not sure where this was used...